feat: add ability to change location of cache files (#34337)
electron/electron: docs/tutorial/where-to-store-app-data.md

> # Where to Store App Data

Reviewer: I really love this doc

> This tutorial provides guidance on where to store user data properly depending
> on the data's type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial provides guidance on where to store different types of user data.
```

## User data paths

In Electron, paths to special directories can be obtained and customized with the
`app.getPath` and `app.setPath` APIs, respectively. There are 3 paths that are used
most commonly to store user data: `userData`, `localUserData`, and `userCache`.

### `userData`

> The `userData` path is where app should store persistent user data, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `userData` path is where apps should store persistent user data, such as
```

config files and authentication information. Generally you should not write

> large files in this location as some environments may choose to synchronize
> files in this location to cloud, especially on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
large files in this location as some environments, such as Windows,
may choose to synchronize files in this location to the cloud.
```

* `~/Library/Application Support/AppName` on macOS

### `localUserData`

On Windows, `localUserData` points to `%LOCALAPPDATA%/AppName`. Both
`localUserData` and `userData` can be used to store persistent user data.
The difference between them is that  `userData` can be synchronized to
the cloud, but `localUserData` cannot.

As a rule of thumb, if some user data takes lots of disk space, it should be written
to `localUserData`. Otherwise, it should instead be written to `userData`.

On Linux and macOS, `localUserData` has no distinctive purpose and is just an alias
to `userData`.

### `userCache`

The `userCache` path is where cache data should be stored. Files in this
location should be safe to be removed without affecting your app's state.

* On Linux, it points to `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/AppName` or `~/.cache/AppName`.
* On macOS, it points to `~/Library/Caches/AppName`.
* On Windows, there is no specialized location to store cache data, and most apps
write cache data to `%LOCALAPPDATA%`, so this path points to `localUserData` by
default. If your app is writing files to both `localUserData` and `userCache`,
you should consider changing the `userCache` path to a subdirectory of

> `localUserData` to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer: This is a very good description of the nuance here :+1:

      `sessionCache` directory, which points to `userData` by default.
   1. All other kinds of browsing data, such as cookies, localStorage, indexDB,
      GPU Cache, and dictionaries. They are all considered as browsing data in
      Chromium and written into the `sessionData` directory, which points to
      `userData` by default.
1. Data implicitly written by other Electron APIs, such as crash reports written
   by the `crashReporter` module, or lock file written by the
   `app.requestSingleInstanceLock` API. They are written to the `userData`
   directory by default.
1. Data generated by Electron apps themselves. It is developer's decision to
   choose where to write them.

## Choose a better location for browsing data

For historical reasons, the locations of browsing data and cache (`sessionData`
and `sessionCache`) point to `userData` by default. This causes problems for
apps that open remote websites with `BrowserWindow`, because disk spaces used by
`sessionData` and `sessionCache` could increase quickly and users would get a
very large `userData` directory, which is annoying for users who synchronize the
content of `userData` to cloud.

> So for new apps you should change `sessionCache` to `userCache` to avoid
> polluting `userCache` directory with cache data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So new apps are recommended to change `sessionCache` to `userCache` to avoid
polluting `userCache` directory with cache data.
```

# Where to Store App Data

This tutorial provides guidance on where to store user data properly depending

> on the app's type.

Reviewer 2: > on the app's type.

Shouldn't this be about the type of data you want to store?

## User data paths

> In Electron, locations of user data can be obtained and customized with
> `app.getPath` and `app.setPath` APIs, and there are 3 types of paths are used
> most commonly: `userData`, `localUserData` and `userCache`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Electron, paths to special directories can be obtained and customized with the
`app.getPath` and `app.setPath` APIs, respectively. There are 3 paths that are used
most commonly to store user data: `userData`, `localUserData`, and `userCache`.
```

### `userData`

The `userData` path is where app should store persistent user data, such as
config files and authentication information. Generally you should not write
large files in this location as some environments may choose to synchronize

> files in this location to cloud, especially on Window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
files in this location to cloud, especially on Windows.
```

> It by default points to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, it points to:
```

* `%APPDATA%/AppName` on Windows
* `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/AppName` or `~/.config/AppName` on Linux
* `~/Library/Application Support/AppName` on macOS

### `localUserData`

> On Linux and macOS `localUserData` is an alias to `userData`, on Windows it
> points to `%LOCALAPPDATA%/AppName` instead.
> 
> On Windows, both `localUserData` and `userData` can be used to store persistent
> user data, the difference between them is, the `userData` can be synchronized to
> cloud, but `localUserData` can not.
> 
> The convention is, if the user data takes lots of disk space, they should be
> written to `localUserData`, otherwise it can be written to `userData` instead.

Reviewer 2: I would start with the Windows portion here because I think the distinction is the most important part.

```suggestion
On Windows, `localUserData` points to `%LOCALAPPDATA%/AppName`. Both
`localUserData` and `userData` can be used to store persistent user data.
The difference between them is that  `userData` can be synchronized to
the cloud, but `localUserData` cannot.

As a rule of thumb, if some user data takes lots of disk space, it should be written
to `localUserData`. Otherwise, it should instead be written to `userData`.

On Linux and macOS, `localUserData` has no distinctive purpose and is just an alias
to `userData`.

```

Reviewer 2: > On Linux and macOS, `localUserData` **has no distinctive purpose** and is just an alias
to `userData`.

Let me know if this part is wrong. This is just how I interpreted the paragraph.

### `userCache`

> The `userCache` path is where cache data should be stored, files in this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `userCache` path is where cache data should be stored. Files in this
```

> location should be safe to be removed without affecting app's state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
location should be safe to be removed without affecting your app's state.
```

> On Linux it points to `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/AppName` or `~/.cache/AppName`.
> 
> On macOS it points to `~/Library/Caches/AppName`.
> 
> On Windows there is no specialized location to store cache data, and most apps
> write cache data to `%LOCALAPPDATA%`, so this path points to `localUserData` by
> default. If your app is writing files to both `localUserData` and `userCache`,
> you should consider changing the `userCache` path to a subdirectory of
> `localUserData` to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* On Linux, it points to `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/AppName` or `~/.cache/AppName`.
* On macOS, it points to `~/Library/Caches/AppName`.
* On Windows, there is no specialized location to store cache data, and most apps
write cache data to `%LOCALAPPDATA%`, so this path points to `localUserData` by
default. If your app is writing files to both `localUserData` and `userCache`,
you should consider changing the `userCache` path to a subdirectory of
`localUserData` to avoid conflicts.
```

## Data in Electron apps

Data generated by a typical Electron app can be categorized to 3 kinds:

1. Browsing data created by `Session` API, which in most apps are generated
   implicitly when using the `BrowserWindow` API. They can be roughly separated
   in 2 kinds:
   1. HTTP disk cache and JavaScript code cache, which are written into the
      `userCache` directory.

>    2. All other kinds of browsing data, such as cookies, localStorage, indexDB,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. All other kinds of browsing data, such as cookies, localStorage, indexDB,
```

      GPU Cache, and dictionaries. They are all considered as browsing data in
      Chromium and written into the `sessionData` directory, which points to
      `userData` by default.

> 2. Data implicitly written by other Electron APIs, such as crash reports written

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Data implicitly written by other Electron APIs, such as crash reports written
```

nit: the MD spec handles numbering automatically, so it's easier to just number everything with `1.` and let the parser do the numbering work (makes the diff smaller if you want to insert items in a refactor for example)

   by the `crashReporter` module, or lock file written by the
   `app.requestSingleInstanceLock` API. They are written to the `userData`

>    directory by default.

Reviewer 2: > They are written to the `userData` directory **by default**.

(emphasis mine) Does this imply that the path can be customized for each of these APIs?

> 3. Data generated by Electron apps themselves. It is developer's decision to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Data generated by Electron apps themselves. It is developer's decision to
```

   choose where to write them.

## Choose a better location for sessionData

> For historical reasons the location of browsing data (`sessionData`) points to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For historical reasons, the location of browsing data (`sessionData`) points to
```

`userData` by default. This causes problems for apps that open remote websites
with `BrowserWindow`, because disk spaces used by `sessionData` could increase
quickly and users would get a very large `userData` directory, which is annoying

> for users who synchronizes content of `userData` to cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for users who synchronize the content of `userData` to cloud.
```

So for apps that don't store any user data inside browser, it is recommended
to change `sessionData` to `userCache` to keep `userData` directory clean.

```javascript
app.setPath('sessionData', app.getPath('userCache'))
```

And for apps that rely on browser storage like cookies and localStorage to store
user data, it is recommended to change `sessionData` to `localUserData`, to
comply with user data conventions on Windows.

```javascript
app.setPath('sessionData', app.getPath('localUserData'))

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would start with the "apps that rely on browser storage" part before the "for apps that don't store any user data inside browser" part.
